# (PART) Internal {-}

# Team meetings

Every week we meet for about an hour 20 minutes. The team meeting has three sections:

* [30 min] **Papers & software**: we discuss either a paper or some software. The discussion is lead by a team member and the presentation is made public on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/LeonardoColladoTorres/playlists) while the discussion is kept private.
* [30 min] **Data Science guidance sessions**: we talk about our sessions and provide internal feedback.
* [20 min] **Help requests**: we give open the floor to discuss anything we need help on from the rest of the team.

## Papers & software

Each week, we rotate team members as shown on [this presenters Google Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1r6552ySisg7_KpmJmChOvLHVWdMmss3bncEf2jqIM9k/edit?usp=sharing). That team member is in charge of:

1. finding a paper or a software of interest
2. notifying the group about it one week ahead on Slack
3. preparing a few slides to explain the main concepts to us (plan for a 15 minute presentation)
4. add some quick notes or short summary on the Google Spreadsheet

We record that portion of our meeting and make it publicly available through [the presenters Google Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1r6552ySisg7_KpmJmChOvLHVWdMmss3bncEf2jqIM9k/edit?usp=sharing). We then discuss privately our thoughts on the paper or software. Here's our first video:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/wuPLVfdZ92Q" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

You can also find the rest of them under the **team lcolladotor** YouTube playlist at [LeonardoColladoTorres/playlists](https://www.youtube.com/c/LeonardoColladoTorres/playlists).



### Notes

* If you are randomly assigned a date that does not work for you, please get in touch with other team members and find someone who can switch with you. Thank you!
* If you are interested in joining us, please check our [code of conduct](http://research.libd.org/rstatsclub/#coc), and get in touch with [Leonardo](http://lcolladotor.github.io/).

## DSgs: feedback

Every week, the [DSgs-guides](#dsgs-guide-team-members) meet to discuss recent guidance sessions with the following objectives:

1. identify common topics that can be addressed in other venues such as the LIBD rstats club, this book, blog posts, etc
2. ensure consistency of our responses to similar questions
3. identify and address issues with our [DSgs interaction rules](#interaction-rules)

We might identify topics that we need to either train the DSgs-guides on or our LIBD/JHU colleagues, as well as useful R functions/packages that we can write to help us and others.

### Notes

* You don't have to be a part of Leonardo's team to be a DSgs-guide and thus join this meeting.

## Team help

While each team member has an individual weekly meeting, sometimes some problems can be solved with other/fresh eyes looking at them as well as new ideas. If you are having one such problem, this is a great venue to get help for it. This space and time can also be used for asking some quick questions as well as addressing any administration announcements.

## Individual updates

On Mondays at 11 am everyone meets with Leo sequentially for 10-15 min to discuss individual updates. These meetings are useful to talk about what projects take priority on a given week, personal issues, and personal career development decisions such as which conference(s) to attend. Here's a [list of conferences/courses of interest](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15toP739T3cGvqz9I2y56USvVT7GU9jkOx1GDKQsbaPY/edit?usp=sharing).

## Notion updates

We recently started using [Notion](https://www.notion.so/) that you can [sign up here](https://www.notion.so/signup) and get a free "Personal Pro" account when you sign up with an `edu` email. Let Leo know your `edu` email once you sign up so he can add you to the team "page". On it, you can find "epics" which are major projects and "tasks". We meet on Fridays at 9:30 am to discuss our progress as a team with our epics & tasks.

## Project meetings

Here's the list of project meetings and who should attend them:

* recount3: Leo. Geo or Nick might join in the future.
* Moods: Louise, Leo. Arta when discussing TWAS.
* spatialLIBD updates: Abby, Brenda, Leo.
* spatial journal club: it's optional, though many of you can benefit from it.
* spatial team meeting: Abby, Brenda, Leo. Optionally Arta and Nick could benefit from it.
* LIBD rstats club: everyone.
* CHESS-BRAIN: Leo, Geo and Arta (have not started yet).
